This programme contains
very strong language.
..Ollie, did you see him
when I said your thing
about the Opposition, "home is
where the heart is"? It almost hurt!
I loved it! He didn't even get it!
He did. He flinched! He was hating
it! Fiddling with his catheter!
A satisfactory report-stage debate.
Only three amendments in committee.
How many did Doug's piece of shit
get at report? God, at least 200.
Then it got fucked in the Lords. It
was more amendment than Bill, in the
end. We're doing a press release?
Yes... "Following a successful
report-stage debate, the Secretary
of State for Social Affairs,
"Hugh Abbot, today announced...
"I'm the fuckin' daddy!"
There was a SMARMY piece in The
Guardian, though. Did you see it?
Dan fucking Miller! Yeah.
"Ooh, all the work I've done on the
Standing Committee." Fine. My pie is
extremely large, as you may notice.
Pie for all my friends! Yeah.
"My Jacuzzi is king-sized
and everybody can...
"plonk their asses
on the bubble-jets..."
Is that from something? No.
Dan Miller is a junior minister and
he's not done at all badly. Just
a bit green. Now... You turning...
..a bit green yourself there,
minister? What're you saying? What
you saying? You saying I'm jealous?
No, it's just a...little thing.
You know those invisible lines...?
Yeah. ..you just stepped over it...
The problem with it being invisible.
..again. Um, I...
have...just been invited to...
KNOCK AT DOOR
DANNY BOY!
< Oh, lovely(!)
Man of the hour!
..just been invited to...
Gorgeous!
Lovely to see you.
Well done! You did so bloody well.
Thank you!
You're looking well!
Fantastic! Could you do
GMTV for me tomorrow?
I'd love to do GMTV for you tomorrow.
Dan... Thank you very much!
Nice and early.
No, no, I don't mind.
Thanks so much.
How are you doing? Good? Well,
the debate did got very well and
the bill's going through, so... Um...
I've got stuff I need... No, fine.
..I have been invited...
How are you, Glenn? Good, thank you.
Actually... ..I thought you were
heavy-handed with the backbenchers.
No need for it nowadays. Glenn.
You know as well as I do,
if you're gonna make an omelette,
you're going to have to have frank
and honest discussion with the eggs.
That's all I was doing.
MOBILE RINGS
Hello, Malcolm!
'Dan! How are you doing?!'
'How are YOU, you terrier?'
Listen, I'm just calling because...
'you're gathering a lot of very
influential admirers.' Oh, really?
You're irresistible,
you know that? You are.
I have a sort of feeling
you're pulling my pisser. No,
I wouldn't pull YOUR pisser, pal.
I know where it's fucking been.
'Listen, I've got to go,
I've got Tom on my other line.' OK.
We'll talk soon.
Thanks for the DVDs, by the way.
Oh, before you go, can you...? N...
Did you get bumped for someone more
important? He's always doing that.
Gotta go. Squash game
with Pete from the Treasury. Ooh(!)
Ooh(!) Pete from the Treasury?
You probably heard.
He cut us some slack. I offered him
a game to smooth it over. Good luck.
I've got
an appointment anyway. Cool.
Bit of supper with the Prime
Minister, just the two of us.
Should be fun.
Oh, that's...very impressive.
No, it isn't, it's just what we do.
It's normal.
..Well, enjoy that anyway. So...
Can I phone you back -
GMTV, phone you later?
See you, Dan. Well done. Good luck.
Thank YOU.  Well done you,
well done everyone. Bye-bye!
OK, bye-bye.
I'm not complacent, Tom.
Yeah, I know, we did take a hit
over the focus group thing.
But it wasn't a BIG hit.
Oh, yeah? Says who?
Oh, the PM told you that, huh?
Oh, get you(!) Look...
I can only cook with what I've been
given. It's like Ready, Steady Cook,
you give me Hugh Abbot,
I'll give you bangers and mash.
But give me Jerry from the Home
Office, then I can raise it
to a fuckin' risotto and scallops,
you know?
Yeah. Yeah, yeah, OK, bye!
Sam! Can you get me Terri Coverley
and Glenn Cullen?
Make them an appointment
to come over.
I think I've got to shout
at some people.
Oh - actually...
get me John at Culture on the phone.
I'll have a shout now.
Is this tie all right?
It's fine. I don't want to come
across as some sort of... Sales rep.
Do I look like a bloody sales rep?
No, no, no... No. No. It's fine.
What ARE those...?
They're little hippos, aren't they?
I don't know what they are, they're
just unidentified amusing creatures.
Oh, I hate this! I've been called
in for a bollocking from Tucker
just cos HE'S been twatted by the PM.
All he'll do is...
spread it all over the office,
then we'll be off. Exactly.
And we've every reason to be happy
bunnies. Day three of report stage
and it's gone like a dream. Yeah.
A GOOD dream, not one of those
where you can't move your legs.
Absolutely!
Are you sure about this tie? It's
good, it's funny. Funny?! (Terri!)
Fucking hell, this... No, it's not
funny. Political breakthrough night!
I don't wanna get laughs off my
clothes! She didn't mean "funny
ha-ha". It's fine. No, leave it.
Fuck, yes! Wish me luck.
I'm going without the tie.
Right... I meant to ask,
did you stay in the flat last night?
For about a minute and a half.
Kate rang.
Alicia had an ear infection.
Obviously life and death(!)
Infected ear, huge crisis,
hold the front-page Shuttle
disaster(!) I had to drive 20 miles
through the night
to be ten feet from Alicia's ear
which wasn't infected anyway. Oh.
And Malcolm's been on at me
about the flat.
He thinks there could be problems
with the Housing Bill. With you
having a flat in Notting Hill
and living within commuting
distance? It IS empty quite a lot.
The key-worker stuff in that bill...
(But I NEED a place in London.
Everybody else important's got
(a huge, fuck-off, grace-and-favour
pad. Why haven't I got one?)
I can sort this out if you leave it
to me, do what we said, yes?
The sale but not-a-sale.
Yeah, right, whatever.
LOUDER: Right, I'll see you later.
We're off. OK.
Enjoy supper.
Enjoy your bollocking!
HE LAUGHS
HE BLOWS
God's sake, I'm not gonna kiss him.
Good evening, Minister. Oh! Thank
you! If you'd like to step this way.
Excuses, excuses!
Take your failure like a man, Ollie!
OK, but next time -
and I want a rematch -
Ah'm gonna take you DOWN, mu'fucker!
Where are you from?
I'm from Lincolnshire - the
windmills, the potatoes, the shit.
Are they...? What, an item?
Do you NEED me to suck up to you?
You're a politician...
He made a pretty good just of
shagging Angela Heaney. Could be bi.
A lot of them are, you know. Oh.
It's interesting seeing the dynamics
play within the...within the staff.
There they are, look... Is he...?
He's seen us. Has he seen you? Yes.
I'm...gonna go back into the office.
I think the Minister's ducking.
He's actually ducked!
So what time does this Daily Mail
hack get here? Ten minutes. It's
Angela Heaney, didn't I tell you?
She left The Standard? Absolutely.
Go, on, ask me some questions. OK.
I'll be Angela Heaney...
It's uncanny!
Mind you, your tits are bigger.
Is it true that...
although this Housing Bill went
through Parliament with ease...
Actually, can you just do it as
yourself? It's a bit unsettling.
Um... ..That you'd find a lot
of difficulty in the real world?
On the contrary, this Bill will do
an extraordinary amount of good
for an extraordinarily large number
of people - ordinary people,
but people who deserve a little bit
of the extraordinary in their lives.
HE GIGGLES
Perfect! That's Brilliant!
There you are, you see?
Ask me something HARD.
Where's the Nazi gold,
you donkey-shagger?!
I'm pleased you asked me that,
Angela, and let me just say
this Bill will do an extraordinary
amount of good for an ex... Ah.
Hello! Morning. You've showered off,
have you? Showered off...?
Yes, thanks, Clem, we've showered
off! You've been playing...?
Early-morning game of squash, yeah.
I love it. fabulous game. You play?
Ah, I used to, but not now.
I used to... At club level? ..Yeah.
Were you on the ladder?
N-No.
Anyway, time for us to go
and meet Angela now.
Yes. I hope SHE doesn't
bounce me off the walls! ..Anyway...
great to talk to you guys... Did you
know Angela was in the building?
Er, yes. Will she be jealous(?)
Hi, Tom, what can I do for you?
..I DIDN'T know what he was doing
with his flat!
I TOLD him that fucking flat w...
Well, they're not running with this!
Well, I know...he's got an interview
now with that Angela Heaney,
the twat bubble from The Standard...
Fuck! She's just gone to The Mail.
I'm onto it!
I wish you'd ask me more
about the Bill,
it is an extraordinary triumph...
I am asking you about the Bill. Good.
Specifically about the empty-house
management orders.
How do they square with the fact that
YOU ha second property lying empty
that you won't sell?
It's not technically empty.
I would've been staying there quite
recently, except my daughter was
very seriously ill. I've spoken...
She's only seven.
I've spoken to an Asian family who
say they've put in four separate
offers on your flat, all rejected
with no explanation. Well, OK...
OUT THE WAY!
Is it because they're Asian?
No. G-God, no!
Where the fuck is he?!
The goldfish bowl. Fuck!
No, no. I'm very glad you brought
THAT up, because that gives me an...
opportunity to... Sorry.
Mucking about...
Um...I have always m-maintained...
I am very sorry... Can I just borrow
the minister for a moment? Sure.
Sorry. Be right back with you.
VOICES INAUDIBLE
..STUPID...!
..know what the fuck is going on?!
Angela... PRICK! ..can I get you
a fresh cup of, er, coffee or...?
No, I'm fine.
Would you like some tea?
No, no...
No biscuits or anything?
..FUCKED...!
Do let me know if you need anything.
Thanks.
..GET in back in there...
DOOR SHUTS NOISE OUT
Ah...
Bit of a disagreement.
Blimey. Yes...
Um, could you...? I'm just curious.
Could you hear...? Because...
we were actually... We CAN be quite
brutal to each other,
cos we're VERY good f-friends.
Right.
Haven't been accepting ANY offers?
No. That wasn't the point!
The whole deal was to put the flat
on the market so if the press asked,
"Fuck off, he's selling it. Go away."
Then Hugh's got a place in town.
Why the fuck is your
girlfriend hitting us with this?
She's not my girlfriend, Malcolm.
You won't mind if I kill her, then,
will you? It'd solve a lot for me.
Hey, hey, if you could sweet-talk
that sour-faced bitch into dropping
this, you... If I could sweet-talk
that sour-faced bitch into anything,
I would've had a better four months.
Just have to kill the BOTH of you,
then, eh?! Yeah, well!
That was a joke - a nasty one
which masks many negative feelings
about this fuckin' department.
MOBILE RINGS
Tom Davies. ..Tom! Hello! How a...?
Yes. No, he was already there.
He was TALKING to her.
W-What's happening? How was...?
What is happening? That was supposed
to be a NICE interview.
What on earth did you say to her?
I-I think I denied being a racist.
God, I HOPE so.
You didn't go, "I have lots of black
friends"? Of course not. I haven't.
I haven't ANY. What did you say?
About the offers. I said I wasn't
aware, someone else was handling the
sale, I wasn't aware of any offers.
Hugh. Hmm? Did you mention me
by name? Um...
Possibly. No, I don't think...
I-I may, in between denying racism,
possibly have...yes. Thank you.
Thank you very much!
Thanks a fucking bunch!
OK, so what's the line on this,
then? I-I... I d... I don't know!
Why, what IS the line on this?
I don't know! Don't look at me!
It's OK, we've got movement, we've
got a break! What? The flat's sold.
What?! To the Asian family. For 40
grand below asking price. That's OK!
Jesus, what is happening?! Malcolm.
What? We're too late. What?! All the
papers have got hold of it. What?!
The Express has been making offers -
at the asking price and also for
£30,000 more. (Jesus!) Hasn't been
accepted. We've got to stall.
This is madness. I just own a flat,
I haven't raped somebody.
They call the scandal "Flatgate".
Scandal?! (Flatgate!) That's crap!
Crap name for a scandal. They SHOULD
call it "Notting Hill Gate...gate."
Can WE stop saying "scandal"?
You're joking. Are you joking now?
On my way to stall them.
Yeah, GET stalling(!)
Maybe we could
just blame it on Terri.
That IS an option, isn't it?
It's a FLAT. It is a SECOND HOME
in a borough
with thousands of homeless people -
that you have kept empty for ages!
Have you not read your own Housing
Bill(?) God! I only kept it empty
for a little while
to see my bloody family.
Obviously I should've filled it
with prostitutes and rent-boys
and crack-cocaine pimp tattoo
freaks! Thanks to Dan Miller,
the Housing Bill is a success. But
this is BURYING the whole thing.
What d'you want me to do - resign(?)
No, no! N... No, that is... I'm NOT
going, over this. The way out...
This is madness! ..is for you to...
Malcolm, this desire for perfection
is... But I am not perfect,
I am just a person, right?
And I need to sleep, need to eat and
occasionally I need to take a dump!
What's next? Do we put THAT on the
evening news, o-on the front page(?)
"Minister In Disgusting Defecation
Outburst"! Mollie Sugden at No. 10 -
did you enjoy your shit, Mr Abbot?
They should just clone ministers
so we're born at 55 with no past.
And no flats and no genitals.
Just a world of robots in a...
It's like a futuristic film.
And YOU'D enjoy that. You'd be
in your little space station
surrounded by...obedient androids
like that fucking brushed-aluminium
Dan Miller cyberprick!
It IS possible to have
a good resignation, you know!
A good resignation(?) I look forward
to how you're gonna sell THIS to me.
Look, people really like it
when you go just a bit early.
Steely-jawed, far-away look in your
eyes. Before they sit in the pub
going, "That fucker's got to go,"
you SURPRISE them. "Blimey!
He's gone. I didn't expect that."
"Resigned? You don't see that much
now." "Old school. Respect.
I rather liked the guy."
"He was hounded out by the fucking
Press!" How about THAT, huh?
What a way to go! Yeah?
(It's probably gonna be... It's gonna
be Hugh that has to go this time.)
Yeah.
WHEEZY CACKLE
SHE LAUGHS ALOUD
..Yeah, no, it is, it's very sad.
Very sad.
OK, Tom, yeah... Yes, indeed.
Two minutes, two minutes.
Tom's finishing up with the Prime
Minister now. I'm gonna join them.
Yup. You might as well stay here.
Yeah. Try and make it quick.
You sure it wouldn't help if I sat
in with you? No. No, no...
Well, we'll be talking about you.
Yeah. It'd be awkward, wouldn't it?
Of course. Very. You just...relax.
Help yourself to a paper
or something.
It'll be fine in the end. I mean...
(We'll just get another doomed,
middle-aged man in on Monday morning
(who'll come through the door,
(stride about a bit, spunk off...
(and I'll mop up the mess -
business as usual.)
The whole heat could come out
of this situation if I went.
It's not come to any resignation
yet, surely?
D'you know what pisses me off?
After 37 years,
without a moment's thought, he's
prepared to drop me right in it.
He's just panicking. No, if anyone's
gonna resign, I should go. No, no.
Decent of you, but I'LL go.
You should stay.
Any fucker can sit
behind a pot-plant,
but YOU'RE the man who stands behind
his desk making sure the pen works.
Right. So maybe you SHOULD go.
Now, hang on! You've convinced me.
I think it would be better.
No, I'm just SAYING - in the scheme
of things - not saying I should GO.
I thought you just said you should
go. No, I'm talking... You said!
..academically. That wasn't
academic. Absolutely WAS. It wasn't!
I... Not academic talk,
that was TALKING talk.
Well, I'M having an academic
discussion. Not with ME.
I'm having a REAL discussion with
you. Well, we can re-set for a real
discussion. Resign here and now,
and I'll put the letter on Hugh's
desk. I can very easily say the same!
I'M not doing that. Why the fuck not?
Hugh's my friend, I'M not doing it.
I'll stay and stand behind him! I'm
just a counter-man at McDonalds,
I'm that important. YOU'RE the clown
running the shop, the one they want
to see strung from a lamppost
by his fucking wig.
What does THAT make me?
Ronald McDonald.
Well, fuck off!
I'm not going, mate. Neither am I.
So, um, what did the PM say?
There'll be an inquiry.
LOUD GASP
Oh, yes! Oh-h...!
Thank you! You're a fucking star.
That's OK.
Sam... Yeah, of course.
..Hugh, Hugh.
Yes? Prime Minister. Could you...?
(Whoo!)
BISCUITS CRUNCH
Mmm! Hello.
Oh! Hello. Is everything
all right, Minister? Mmm.
Those weren't special biscuits,
were they? No. No, no. Good.
How are you? I have been better, to
be honest, but there's gonna be an
inquiry, so. Right. Fingers crossed.
Well, we're all rooting for you.
Aw! Thank you very much.
Can I get you a chair?
Would you like to sit down?
Yes. Please.
You have the biscuits. Thank you.
Um, can I get you more biscuits?
Some coffee? Yes, please.
< SOFT MURMURS
Ollie Reeder.
What? 'Put me on the speakerphone.'
It's the minister. Oh. '..Inquiry.'
Can you speak up? Where are you?
I'm still at No. 10.
They'll have an inquiry.
YES! Great!
Who are they gonna have?
I don't know.
I don't know whether we get any say
in it. But Lord Hibbert's very nice.
I was with him at the FA Cup
semi-final last year,
and we both tried to make out
we had a clue what was going on.
We've had this conversation before -
the ideal person for an inquiry.
It was a dead heat between
Eamon Holmes and Alan Bennett.
Tell you who'd be good -
Lord Monkton. Lord Monkton?
LOUDLY
Lord Monkton certainly is
in the frame here at No. 10. Uh-huh?
Yeah, I'm with the PM's people now.
Hugh. Oh!
..Malcolm's just joined us.
Right, Hugh, um...the good news.
The PM's gonna approach the Right
Honourable Lord Monkton of Cheshunt
to head the inquiry. Good.
It IS Monkton. 'YES!'
OK, fuck off,
you've a department to run.
Thanks. Thanks, Malcolm. Yeah, yeah.
Thanks...
Seen this one? "PM Just Can't Kick
The Abbot". Dreadful picture.
You look like a sales rep.
They're Photoshop.
Surprised they haven't anything
better to write about after,
what is it, five days now?
They'll stay on this.
They want blood.
MOBILE RINGS
Oh, hang on. ..Good morning, Malcolm.
I want you, Terri and Ollie
over here right now. Not Hugh.
Do not bring Hugh to Downing Street.
'Put him on.' Yes, OK, hang on.
It's Malcolm.
He wants to speak to you. ..Go on.
Hugh, I've seen Monkton's report.
It's not good. OK.
He's talked to that driver you got
rid of. Oh, God! I never liked him.
I told Glenn I didn't like him.
The driver. He was a smirky bastard.
He's told him he heard you and Glenn
talk about putting your flat on
the market but not accepting offers.
In passing! Mentioned in passing,
j-just as WORDS, you know.
It's not as if we were plotting
like Guy Fawkes,
concocting our evil master-plan to
not sell a two-bedroomed flat(!)
I didn't know Glenn had
gone ahead. I'm just tired. Is that
a crime now? Feeling shattered?
You feeling shattered will not be
the headline. It'll be YOU'VE LIED.
Right, look, I want your guys over
here, but not you. Understand?
Sure it wouldn't be helpful? Or are
you ALL gonna be talking about me?
We'll ALL be talking about you.
Right, I'll...ring for a cab,
it's quicker than calling
one of the cars up. OK? OK.
Right, well...let's get going.
Yup.
Ah, Hugh. Yup. Bye. Yup.
Yup. See you later... OK.
..probably, anyway.
Hugh. I mean, with the other two,
it's just another day, eh? I know.
I want you to know I'm on your side.
You know?
I wouldn't...
We'll ride again.
Department of Social Affairs(?)
Department of fucking shocking,
shitty, charlatan SHIT! That's...
Feet off the furniture, you Oxbridge
twat! You're no' on a punt now.
Yes, I am king of remembering
my own password.
KNOCK AT DOOR
Yeah!
Oh, Dan! Hi, Hugh. Is Ollie about?
No, he's with Tucker. They all are.
Something up? No, no,
they're just talking about...
a directive from some think-tank
thinks press secretaries
should minute their meetings with
lobbyists... Right. So they're...
just talking about how fucked I am.
Oh, the report? Yeah. Like Monkton
sat in front of the word-processor
and let the righteous anger
of the independent judiciary
flow through him.
It's such a something-and-nothing
issue to get crucified over.
Just a flat! Precisely.
Just cos I'm not
some brushed-aluminium,
you know...cyberprick. Like...
Er, like... Like Ollie.
..Yeah. Mm. Anyway,
I've missed my ideal
resigning-point. Yes.
With every day I delay, it's another
year before I can get back again.
Mmm. If I'd resigned
the day I was appointed,
I'd actually be Prime Minister
by now.
The line is we don't throw
a good man to the wolves
over one little fuck-up.
So Hugh's staying? Yeah.
Tell the wolves to fuck off.
Not exactly.
They need a blood sacrifice. Indeed.
They want a head on a plate.
We've gotta give 'em a head,
you're saying?
You're clever, aren't you?
Very, very clever.
How much does your head weigh? 8lb?
Maybe more.
Mmm. It's not MY head - I've only
got half a head! I'm a half-head.
One of you has got to decide. Which
of you are gonna do the decent thing?
We've been through this! Apparently,
I'm Ronald fucking McDonald(!)
Hang on! Why are YOU not included?
Why one of us two?
Well, if I'VE got to resign, then
you've got to resign. "If I'VE..."
I've got to listen to you on matters
of policy. So HE'S gotta go, then,
cos I answer to him.
We've ALL got to go now, eh(?)
I'm going nowhere.
I didn't DO anything. Nothing.
Oh, Terri!
Grow up! Don't give me
that pile of fucking bollocks!
Just because you're a civil servant,
don't think your shit doesn't smell!
I know things about you.
..What? What d'you know?
Yeah, we know things. Oh, knob off!
You know bugger-all! All you know
is how to suck up to the new kid
on the block. "Ooh, what a lovely
backhand! Ooh, my stroke's so HARD."
You're so fucking repressed...
I was just playing squash!
Glenn, what d'you know? What is it?
What is it you think y...?
I KNOW.
What is it?
I'm gonna see Tucker and resign.
YOU don't need to resign. I know.
Well DON'T, Hugh! No, I've been
thinking. It'll be VERY good.
The report isn't out for three days.
I can leave before it with dignity.
I'll be seen as an honourable man,
be back in government in two years
with a clean slate and a fresh tie.
And I'll be shot of this fucking
department. Takes four days to get
a memo through! "Social Affairs."
What the fuck does it actually MEAN?
It's so vague. "Hello, I'm
Hugh Abbot, the Minister for...
"I dunno - stuff." And take a look
at these civil servants here.
You wouldn't get these dweebs
at the Foreign Office. This place
is packed to the gills with dreck.
No offence.
..Well, I accept it. On behalf of
the PM, I accept your resignation.
As you've worked out,
it's probably for the best.
Minister, hello. Just going to
see Mr Tucker. Oh, I'm sorry.
Mr Tucker has someone there.
I won't be a second. Quite urgent.
Sorry, you're have to wait. Right.
Get you a biscuit?
Thank you.
You won't regret this, Dan.
Trust me, you won't. No...
let's hope not.
Ah, you must be gutted.
Yeah. Yeah, yeah...
Hi. Dan.
Oh, you're seeing Malcolm? Yeah.
Thank you.
Malcolm, I've made a decision.
..You know, what I said about memos
in the department, - I mean,
that's sortable. Cos we can just...
well, sort it. Just an admin thing.
Don't worry, no-one's taken...
We know what you mean. Yeah.
Lovely memo on urban renewal. Oh,
good. See, here's a memo and it's
only taken me a day to get to me.
So things are looking up already.
Dan really did himself some favours
there, you know. Maybe you're right.
Would you like to hear what
our leader thinks? The PM's reply
to his resignation letter. "You are
a dazzlingly bright, talented,
"committed and honourable
new force in British politics.
I'm immensely sorry to lose you
"but I predict you will
one day find yourself in
very high office indeed."
Well...that's easy. The resigning's
just... That's just cheap and lazy.
Yeah.
Little shit, anyway, Dan Miller.
I never liked him.
I never liked him. I never
ever, ever liked him.
Look, it's really late. Let's....
Come on, Glenn. Time to go home.
OK. I thought Dan was good.
See you. Goodnight.
Goodnight, Hugh.
HE SIGHS
Actually, can I stay
on your sofa tonight?
Yeah. Thanks.
Take your time.
I'll... I'll wait for you, then.